---
layout: post
title: "100 Days of Code Log"
author: "Shani"
categories: journal
tags: [tracking,100 Days Of Code,log]
image: laptoplog.jpg
---
This is my log for the [100 Days of Code](http://www.100daysofcode.com) challenge.

### Day 048: February 4, 2018

**Today's Progress**: Did clean up of class holding notification methods, app built with no issues

**Thoughts**: Decided to not put the notification methods in the MainVC, created a separate class for them, only left the actions.
  

### Day 047: January 30, 2018

**Today's Progress**: Finally figured out how to create notification actions and now implementing them. 

**Thoughts**: Being to feel stupid now, I don't know why I couldn't get a demo app up and running to test.

### Day 046: January 27-28, 2018

**Today's Progress**: Spent too much time trying to get a dummy app up that mimics my app to test out what I learned from the notification tutorial.

**Thoughts**: Being to feel stupid now, I don't know why I couldn't get a demo app up and running to test.

### Day 045: January 26, 2018

**Today's Progress**: Decided to look back into my notification issues and found a tutorial that was current and helped me learn what I was doing wrong.  

**Thoughts**: Just getting notification buttons to work was awesome, now time to test it out on a dummy app.

### Day 044: January 24, 2018

**Today's Progress**: Began working on demo app to test out Realm. 

**Thoughts**: I don't think it will work for what I want it to do. I'm thinking that I should look at implementing iCloud for it.

### Day 043: January 22, 2018

**Today's Progress**: Started to look into and learn about Realm for the backend of my app. 

**Thoughts**: Was always curious about Realm and whether it will be good for my app or not. But I'm also going to look into Firebase as well.  


### Day 042: January 21, 2018

**Today's Progress**: Found a Jekyll template I like, and started to edit it. 

**Thoughts**: This little project is making me feel motivated to finish up my app and to record more videos. I really needed to redo my blog anyway. 

### Day 041: January 20, 2018

**Today's Progress**: Taking a little hiatus from the app, learned about how to implement a Jekyll website. Also worked out a SSH issue that I was having with my Github account.   

**Thoughts**: Need a fresh project to work on, to make me feel like I'm making progress on something. Learned about Jekyll and spent the evening trying to get it to work. 

### Day 040: January 19, 2018

**Today's Progress**: Started learning about Realm.

**Thoughts**: Getting a bit overwhelmed, and hating my 100-Days log. It's so ugly and need to find a better replacement for my website too. I hate Rails.

### Day 039: January 16, 2018

**Today's Progress**: Still can't figure out the notification action button issue. 

**Thoughts**: My brain is not working. Decided to save progress as is, since the notification are at least firing and saving like they should. Will circle back around can fix this.  

### Day 038: January 11, 2018

**Today's Progress**: Found out my notification actions have a bug. 

**Thoughts**: Can't get them to show up when you press on the notification. Wanted it to, because the user could dismiss, complete or delay the task/event. 

### Day 037: January 10, 2018

**Today's Progress**: Clean up my UserNotification code. 

**Thoughts**: Singleton objects - new concept for me

### Day 036: January 7, 2018

**Today's Progress**: Started implementing notifications, have a bug with registering categories, but got it to work.  

**Thoughts**: Having second thoughts on my app, that's why I have missed a couple of days. Going to finish it anyway.

### Day 035: January 3-5, 2018

**Today's Progress**: Reversed back to previous branch, I don't want to add reminders or calendar just yet as it's not apart of my MVP. Started learning and tinker with UserNotifications instead. 

**Thoughts**: Started studying up on UserNotifications class and tinkering with it on mock apps.


### Day 034: January 2, 2018

**Today's Progress**: Started coding to add existing reminders to app so that user can manage reminders and calendar items as well.

**Thoughts**: Sporiadically studied up on how to add reminder and calendar items to app all week, namely EKEventstore. Still not sure how I want to do this. 

### Day 033: December 27, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Wrote notes on how to create search bar and a custom one, so it makes sense to me. Implemented a custom bar successfully to project.  

**Thoughts**: Took a while to write out notes, but it helped me a lot to have it written out and to follow it to implement one. 

### Day 032: December 26-25, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Did two tutorials to figure out how to create a search bar and the other was how to create a custom one.  

**Thoughts**: Took a bit to figure it out as both tuts had deprecated code.  

### Day 031: December 12-17, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Had a horrible bug that was affecting my custom tableview cell's constraints. I created the constraints all in code using visual format language and so it took me a while to figure out since the only way to debug it is at run-time. It basically took one line (minus a variable to hold the value) to reset the frame. 

**Thoughts**: The error had to do with the frame, so the constraints rely on the frame in a way. I lost about a week on trying to figure this out, but I now am more knowledgable on frames and constraints then I ever was. 

### Day 030: December 8, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Redesigned icons and update the itme view controller to accommodate new category icons (added a imageview) and rework began on UI. 

**Thoughts**: Not sure how I want it to look now, but I do know I want it to be clean 

### Day 029: December 7, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Was able to get the correct category icon to appear in the custom tableview cell.

**Thoughts**: Will need to redesign app to make it look better. 

### Day 028: December 6, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Implemented UIPickerView for categories. Added category property to my model. 

**Thoughts**: Didn't take too long to figure it out, since its pretty similar to date picker but with more methods to implement, as date picker is kind of prepackaged.

### Day 027: December 5, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Added UIPicker to view and had fun with figuring out how to control constraints in code. 

**Thoughts**: Was really surprised that you could create connections to constraints and control their values. I know, I'm weird. LOL!

### Day 026: December 4, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Adding another attibute for tasks, categories. Designed icons in Sketch yesterday (Dec 3). Began learning about UIPickerView and how to implement it.  

**Thoughts**: Picker view is interesting, just did a dry test run in a temp project to test it out. 

### Day 025: December 2, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Changed the style of the section headers for my tableview programmatically. Apparently, I didn't fix my edit and new item bugs - so I positive that I did this time. 

**Thoughts**: Just when you think that you've fixed something and than you find out that you didn't. 

### Day 024: November 30, 2017

**Today's Progress**:   Fixed edit and segue issues. Onto adding categories.

**Thoughts**: Bejeezus! It's truly amazing how a fresh pair of eyes can solve a problem.  My edit bug was just a logic issue, just had to change a == to a !=. 

### Day 023: November 29, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Worked on trying to solve edit bug and segue issues. 

**Thoughts**: Redid segue setup and removed code for the navigation bar that I did for the edit view. Was able to get it to work and for the correct pop/modal behavior I wanted for the two actions - edit and add. Still couldn't get the edit item to replace the existing. 

### Day 022: November 28, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Fixed nav bar appearance and started researching on how to solve my the save edit bug. 

**Thoughts**: It's amazing how a fresh pair of eyes can solve a problem.  

### Day 021: November 27, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Worked on getting the navigation bar styling and buttons to work. 

**Thoughts**: Implementing a nav bar programmatically. 

### Day 020: November 26, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Started to implement editting functionality. 

**Thoughts**: Got the segue to edit view to work, but working out issues/bugs with the navigation bar styling and saving to the same item that was originally selected. 

### Day 019: November 25, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Implemented shake-to-undo-delete gesture. 

**Thoughts**: Took a good part of the morning to tinker with it, but it works like a charm. Just hoping it continues to work. 

### Day 018: November 24, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Implementing code for removing item(s) from the main array.

**Thoughts**: After discovering that the items weren't getting deleted, I found that it was much easier to just work on the main data structure and have updates stem from that. It's working like it wanted - yay, for delegates!

### Day 017: November 22, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Attempted to work on table reload, but realized that the delete functionality was not working correctly. 

**Thoughts**: Reverted project back to state from the 21st, so that I could work on the delete functionality that was not implemented correctly (I basically didn't remove the item from the main array and only removed it from the tableview).  

### Day 015 & 016: November 20 - 21, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Learned that I need to programmatically implement cell. 

**Thoughts**: Studying up on how to code constraints for my cell - it's taking a couple of days.  

### Day 014: November 19, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Fixing my broke custom cell when I implemented gestures. 

**Thoughts**: With how I want the gestures to work, I broke my custom cell in the process. Two steps back for one step forward.  

### Day 013: November 18, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Started implementing gestures needed for app. 

**Thoughts**: Spent part of day testing it out on own test app, still not sure if what I'm implementing is going to work. 

### Day 011 & 012: November 16-17, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Still experimenting with gestures. 

**Thoughts**: Took all day to read up and experiment with gestures. Coding them manually, as I have a custom cell. It's taking a bit longer than I anticipated.


### Day 010: November 15, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Started working on adding more than one gesture to control edit and delete. 

**Thoughts**: Found out that I need to learn a bit more about handling more than one gesture and that it involves some code to get it to work. On the bright side, I'll be pretty familiar with creating custom tableview cells and how to manipulate their behaviour. Yay, me! 

### Day 009: November 14, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Disable save button, if there's invalid data, tap to complete functionality and implemented deletion with alerts.

**Thoughts**: I think working with a multi-dimensional array was the way to go on this project, found it was easy to wrap my mind around it and to implement all that I wanted to without too much trouble. 

### Day 008: November 13, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Implemented add functionality, because its important.

**Thoughts**: Took some brain grease to figure it out since I was using a multi-dimensional array. But I found it was easy enough.

### Day 007: November 12, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Implemented code for pulling date from a date picker.

**Thoughts**: Not as hard as I thought, much easier then the UISwitch. 

### Day 006: November 11, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Started implementing the 2nd view controller. 

**Thoughts**: Spent most of the hour or so trying to get my UISwitch from dismissing my VC, so annoying, but learned a bit more about the view controller lifecycles. Good times!

### Day 005: November 10, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Finished implementing the custom cell. Finished the 2nd view controller's UI. 

**Thoughts**: Working with xibs wasn't that hard, just had to work a bit on it.  

### Day 004: November 9, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Decided to create a custom tableview cell. Started implementing.

**Thoughts**: Since I programmatically implemented the tableview cell and sections, I'll have to create a custom cell as well, because I want to show more detail about each item. Too soon to tell if I'm implementing it correctly or not. 

### Day 003: November 8, 2017

**Today's Progress**: So much fun working with multidimensional arrays! Was able to implement the sections and row sort output based on whether item is complete or not. 

**Thoughts**: Found it a lot easier to programmatically implement the tableview cell and sections. I think this is due to figuring it out using Playground. 

### Day 002: November 7, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Implemented half of the tableview functionality for the app.

**Thoughts**: Working through implementing section output. 

### Day 001: November 6, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Implemented major portions of the design. Color scheme and uploaded custom font to project. 

**Thoughts**: Was interesting to learn about converting color hexidecimal to UIColor. Decided keep the color hex in the project to make it easier for me to update it in the future. 

**Link to the color hex method: [Convert Color Hex code to UIColor](https://github.com/shanirivers/Interesting-Code-Snippets/blob/master/ConvertHexToUIColor.swift)

### Day 00: November 5, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Worked on app's UI design and added assets 

**Thoughts:** I'm trying to get a handle on working with Sketch, but I've learned a lot about the updates over the past 2 days and now feel pretty comfortable with it and energized by first iteration of the app's UI. Learned how to turn hex code into UIColor using Swift 
